The Sim7600 component
=====================

Integration of the sim7600H raspberry pi hat for GNSS positioning and 4G connectivity.
Component name: `sim7600`

Custom Status
-------------

The component publishes and set a custom status message to `sensors:sim7600:status`.

.. code-block::

    {
    "gnss_worker_alive": boolean,
    "gnss_emulation": boolean
    }

The `worker_alive` field indicates if the GNSS worker is alive or not.

.. warning::
    Even if this field is set to `true`, the GNSS worker may still be initializing and so not broadcasting any position.
    The value of the key/value storage would be an empty string in this case.

The `emulation` field indicates if the GNSS worker is emulating a position or not. If this field is set to `true`,
the sim7600 is not recognized and data is emulated.

Data
----

The component publishes and set the data to `sensors:sim7600:gnss` and `sensors:sim7600:sigqual`.
`sensors:sim7600:sigqual`:

.. code-block::

    {
    "rssi": int,
    "ber": int
    }

The `rssi` field is the Received Signal Strength Indicator. Possible values and what they refer to can be found in SIM7600 AT commands doc. Here is the listing:

.. list-table:: Possible RSSI values
    :header-rows: 1
    * - Value(s)
      - Associated dBm value(s)

    * - 0
      - <= 113 dBm
    * - 1
      - 111 dBm
    * - 2 ... 30
      - -109 ... -53 dBm
    * - 31
      - >= -51 dBm
    * - 99
      - Unknown/Undetectable
    * - 0 ... 99
      - RSSI, 3G, 2G, LTE
    * - 100
      - <= -116 dBm
    * - 101 ... 191
      - -115 ... -26 dBm
    * - 191
      - >= -25dBm
    * - 199
      - Unknown/Undetectable
    * - 100 ... 199
      - TDSCDMA, RSCP received, 3G-only

For more information about network signal quality, you can refer to `this page <https://help.venntelecom.com/support/solutions/articles/44001930601-how-to-interpret-ec-io-sinr-rssi-rscp-rsrp-rsrq-parameters-in-2g-3g-lte-routers>`.

The `ber` field is counter for the Bit Error Ratio on the last 8 sent data. You can also refer to the SIM7600 doc here too for more information.

.. list-table:: Possible RSSI values
    :header-rows: 1
    * - Value(s)
      - Associated loss percentage(s)

    * - 0
      - < 0.01%
    * - 1
      - 0.01 ... 0.1%
    * - 2
      - 0.1 ... 0.5%
    * - 3
      - 0.5 ... 1.0%
    * - 4
      - 1.0 ... 2.0%
    * - 5
      - 2.0 ... 4.0%
    * - 6
      - 4.0 ... 8.0%
    * - 7
      - >= 8.0%
    * - 99
      - Unknown/Undetectable

`sensors:sim7600:gnss`:

.. code-block::

    {
    "fixMode": int,
    "gpsSat": int,
    "gloSat": int,
    "beiSat": int,
    "lat": tuple[int, float],
    "latInd": str,
    "lon": tuple[int, float],
    "lonInd": str,
    "date": str,
    "time": str,
    "alt": float,
    "speed": float,
    "course": str,
    "pdop": float,
    "hdop": float,
    "vdop": float,
    "timestamp": float
    }


The `fixMode` field is not meaningful.

The `gpsSat`, `gloSat` and `beiSat` fields are the number of satellites used for the fix.

The `lat` and `lon` fields are the latitude and longitude in degrees and minutes, e.g. (48, 123.4567) for 48° 123.4567'.

The `latInd` and `lonInd` fields are the latitude and longitude indicators, e.g. N and E.

.. warning::
    If the latitude indicator is S, the latitude degrees must be multiplied by -1.
    If the longitude indicator is W, the longitude degrees must be multiplied by -1.

The `date` and `time` fields are the date and time of the fix. The format is DDMMYY and HHMMSS.XX.

The `alt` field is the altitude in meters.

The `speed` field is the speed in km/h. This field is not tested and may be wrong.

The `course` field is the course in degrees. This field is not tested and may be wrong.

The `pdop`, `hdop` and `vdop` fields are the pdop, hdop and vdop.

The `timestamp` field is the timestamp obtained with `time.time()`.